# CPNN
Co-Phosphorylation Network Navigator (CPNN): Web Application for Interactive Visualization of Co-phosphorylation Networks

## Abstract
As part of diabetes research at the German Diabetes Center, samples from diabetes patients as well as corresponding mouse models and cell experiments are studied to investigate diabetes and insulin resistance. In the context of diabetes research, the phosphoproteome is of particular interest because insulin triggers a complex and not yet fully understood signal transduction cascade with pleiotropic effects, which is mediated by the successive phosphorylation of certain proteins at specific phosphorylation sites. Using the mass spectrometry-based technology of phosphoproteomics, the phosphoproteome of the samples is identified and quantified at the DDZ. The profiles of the quantified phosphopeptides obtained from several samples can then be compared with each other and between groups of samples (e.g. healthy vs. diseased). For this purpose, so-called graphical co-phosphorylation networks can be generated by connecting relatively strongly correlated profiles of two phosphopeptides (nodes) with an edge that represents a co-phosphorylation or other interaction between them. In particular, correlation components of interactions between the phosphopeptides (so-called modules, which can represent signaling pathways) are investigated.

CPNN is a web application for the graphical visualization of co-phosphorylation networks. In addition, further attributes, such as the affiliation to certain pathways or the origin from certain data sets, are visualized. The networks are displayed in the form of dynamic force-directed graphs. The user has the option of customizing the view of the graph. Interactive functions, filter functions and customization options for the physics of the graph are provided for this purpose. The interactive functions include zooming, moving the scene, tooltips or popovers and moving nodes. The filter functions make it possible to filter the displayed graph according to certain properties or attributes of nodes, edges or context components. The structure of the graph can be modified by adjusting the physical forces. All these functions make it possible to find interesting and potentially biomedically relevant patterns in the networks.
